Special Hulls
-------------

_Full Thrust_ and _More Thrust_ outlined a few different special cases where a hull could be fitted in different ways, including incredibly-large ships and incredibly-armed ships. Since these rules are standardizing on a single classification of ship hull, some changes need to be made to accommodate these special cases.

__Military:__ Rules for designing military craft no longer save on drive costs at smaller sizes (for now), and in order to have superior hull integrity (50%) must avoid fitting too much cargo space.

__Merchant:__ Civilian craft no longer use a special classification of ship hull since in these rules ALL ships are built on modified "merchant" rules for standardization purposes. Merchants and auxiliary craft simply tend to trade hull strength and weapons capacity for large amounts of cargo space.

__Dummies:__ A 'fake' escort bogey could be generated by a real ship that mounts a 'dummy' drive signature detected as a small class of ship. Or maybe use our [missile craft](MissileCraft#drones) rules for probes/drones.

__Weasel Boats:__ A 'Weasel' decoy system is just another ship system available to fit to a hull.

__System Defense Ships and Monitors:__ Military ships that don't fit an [FTL drive](FasterThanLightDrive) are allowed to fit an additional 25% of their mass with ship systems for a total of 75%. _Full Thrust_ says "merchants" and starbases however cannot. More on that below.

__In-system Freighters:__ A non-military ship without FTL can still only mount 10% of their mass in weaponry/systems. I take this to mean that 25% savings for not fitting an FTL drive is instead taken up by additional cargo space. Since 40% is the usual space available for cargo, a non-FTL freighter would logically have 65% space (40% + 25%), but I'm gonna call it 60% and say 5% is taken up by additional infrastructure to support the extra 20% of cargo capacity.

__Tugs and Tenders:__ FTL towing capacity for tugs is now part of the [cargo space](CargoSpace) available to "merchant" ships. This makes sense because _Full Thrust_ said tugs use the merchant rules. Tenders might be considered to have [hangar bays](HangarBay) instead of FTL towing space, but an excessive amount of hangars might also reduce the maximum amount of [hull integrity](HullIntegrity) allowed.

__Starbases:__ _Full Thrust_ says space bases and other immobile installations don't have 75% of mass available for weapons/systems. Let's say lacking a [normal space drive](NormalSpaceDrive) doesn't save any space because an immobile ship must make up for it with long-term storage and life support systems, and the extra 25% that _is_ saved by lacking an FTL drive is taken up by hangar bays (25% mass of them) or even more cargo space (20% mass of it).

__Space Installations:__ The expanded space installation guidelines in _More Thrust_ should be available to ANY hulls of exceptional size. Dividing a large ship or space station into multiple sections makes for interesting scenarios.

__'Q' Ships:__ A "dummy" merchant ship with a full complement of 50% mass in weapons fits in with our modified "merchant" rules. The main limitation seems to be limiting hull integrity to 25%. I take this to mean hull integrity indeed has a minimum of 25% (rounded up of course), and whatever systems are required to keep it registering on sensors or logs as "merchant" keeps a Q-ship from raising it any higher.

__Superships:__ Found in _More Thrust_. Ships should generally be limited to 100 mass, but if desired can go over. We don't have variable drive system costs so mass 100+ ships may well be unbalanced. Superships are only required to purchase one [FireCon](FireControlSystem). Hull box rows SHOULD increase with hull size above 100; go with the suggested 1 more row for every 50 mass.
